IPIP-0383: Compact Denylist Format (#383)
ipfs/specs: IPIP/383-compact-denylist-format.md

    - Security in mind: do not enable amplification attacks through lists (i.e. someone requesting a recursively blocked CID repeteadly over the gateway endpoint causes traversal of the whole CID-DAG.

- Regarding list distribution:
    - Ability to subscribe to multiple lists, and fetch any updates as they happen
    - Ability to publish own lists so that others can subscribe to them
    - List-subscription configuration or file details remote lists that the user is subscribed to. Editable by hand.
    - Ability to subscribe to list subscriptions.
    - List subscriptions can carry context (i.e. publisher, email, type of blocking.

### User benefit

Users and developers will benefit from a list format that is easy to work with because:

* It can be understood by just looking at it.
* It can be edited by hand.
* Implementations can choose to support different aspects (i.e. blocking but no optional hints).
* Denylist parsers are easy and stupid.

### Compatibility

The current Protocol Labs denylist format
https://badbits.dwebops.pub/denylist.json can be easily converted into the

> proposed compact format. This is shown at https://badbits.dwebops.pub/denylist.json.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
proposed compact format. This is shown at https://badbits.dwebops.pub/badbits.deny.
```
